# TraceIt
An NCEA progress tracker for those who cannot be bothered counting their credits.

TraceIt – Your Personal NCEA progress tracker

What is this?
TraceIt is an NCEA progress tracker with access to a local NCEA standards database, from which standards can be selected, and progress relating to NCEA attainment, subject endorsements and course endorsements is automatically calculated and displayed to the user as they utilize the app. Users can add the subjects they are taking from the NCEA defined list, or add their own if they don’t see the one they want (school may have a custom, mixed subject, or student may be involved in a Gateway / Trades course partly off-campus.
Who is this for?
TraceIt is targeted towards the average student who has no interest in pursuing the cumbersome task of finding their NSN (National Student Number), log in to NZQA, and finally access their results that show up in an unfriendly user interface that may be difficult to navigate for some. Most people just want to pop on and pop off, rather than waste time figuring out how things work. Even if one manages to figure everything out, this is completely fruitless, as the standards that a student is meant to take throughout the year aren’t locked in, meaning there is absolutely no native ability to visualise how you might do. Even after completing an assessment, that grade may yet to be seen on NZQA for months. NZQA is purely for checking grades long after the fact.


What does the competition look like?
iOS? None. 
Android? One ugly, basic application that was built for the BrightSparks competition, promised to add new features, but life (university) got in the way of the sole developer, so nothing has been done for almost two years. This app, though produced with the good intention of helping students work with their courses, credits and whatever other C’s, fails to accommodate the average user’s mind and habits. There will be a select few interested in manually typing each standard’s title, credits and assessment type, but 90% will see this and go, “Not worth my time.” 
This is an incredibly demanding generation, with the expectation being that if I don’t get it now, I don’t want it (though this crisis has perhaps taught us a lesson or two, thanks NZPost). People don’t want to do the work, so the most popular apps minimise the length and number of tasks needed to achieve something. 
Another failure of this project is the lack of cross-platform availability. Being stuck with a specific platform, in this case, Android, severely cuts down your potential audience. 
Finally, the UI is a bit of a dump. Black and white mixed with colours that don’t blend well, a strong lack of smooth controls, and generally clunky. It truly does have the old, free Android-app-delivered-in-a-day look. Sorry, but it is time to move on.

Though there is one current competitor, there have been several attempts in the past. First, the official NZQA student app, which was actually pretty good. I used it myself during 2018 and found it to be a great way to check how I’m doing, and if I’m on track to attaining my goals. Come 2019, it’s gone. Simply, completely disappeared off the App Store. Could NZQA no longer afford the yearly $100 USD developer program bill? It seems no one will ever know. In fact, the whole reason TraceIt was ever brought to life was because I no longer had a great tool in my hands that I could rely on for NCEA purposes. I can still download the app from my past purchases tab, but the standards are no longer up-to-date, and most standards were reviewed or made obsolete by end of 2019. 
Massey University also had a progress tracker of their own on the App Store (not sure about Play Store), which attempted to capture the hearts of students with mini-games and badges to make things more engaging. Thing is, if something is a tool, don’t turn it into a game. Any forced additional engagement may frustrate users who just want to be in and out, not worrying about trivial features like badges or the like. And, low-and-behold, this app also mysteriously vanished from the App Store’s shelves. What is it with every single NCEA progress tracker getting the boot?
A web and app-based service called NCEATrack hung around for a bit but suffered several of the problems that Android app had. Users must do most things themselves. It still exists as a web service, but you guessed it, no longer an app. Let us be honest, this generation lives on their phones. Therefore, anything they want quick access to should be native – it should be a local app. No one is using that web service, nor is it receiving support. Perhaps the two are in tandem with another?

Let’s just say that the competition is looking really stiff. By that, I mean, no, it isn’t. It doesn’t exist. Which is perfect for TraceIt, which looks to remedy the issues I have covered above.
